1. Write an inheritance hierarchy for classes Quadrilateral, Trapezoid, Parallelogram, Rectangle
and Square. Use Quadrilateral as the super class of the hierarchy. Specify the instance
variables and methods for each class. The private instance variables of Quadrilateral should
be the x-y coordinate pairs for the four endpoints of the Quadrilateral. Write a program that
instantiates objects of your classes and outputs each object's area (except Quadrilateral).

2. Create a general class ThreeDObject and derive the classes Box, Cube, Cylinder and Cone
from it. The class ThreeDObject has methods wholeSurfaceArea ( ) and volume ( ). Override
these two methods in each of the derived classes to calculate the volume and whole surface
area of each type of three-dimensional objects. The dimensions of the objects are to be taken
from the users and passed through the respective constructors of each derived class. Write a
main method to test these classes.

3. Write a program to create a class named Vehicle having protected instance variables
regnNumber, speed, color, ownerName and a method showData ( ) to show “This is a vehicle
class”. Inherit the Vehicle class into subclasses named Bus and Car having individual private
instance variables routeNumber in Bus and manufacturerName in Car and both of them
having showData ( ) method showing all details of Bus and Car respectively with content of
the super class’s showData ( ) method.

4. An educational institution wishes to maintain a database of its employees. The database is
divided into a number of classes whose hierarchical relationships are shown below. Write all
the classes and defines the methods to create the database and retrieve individual information
as and when needed.
Write a driver program to test the classes.
Staff (code, name)
Teacher (subject, publication) is a Staff
Officer (grade) is a Staff
Typist (speed) is a Staff
RegularTypist (remuneration) is a Typist
CasualTypist (daily wages) is a Typist.

5. Consider an example of book shop which sells books & video tapes. It’s modeled by Book &
Tape classes. These two classes are inherited from the abstract class called Media. The Media
class has common data members such as title & publication. The Book class has data
member for storing a no. of pages in a book & Tape class has the playing time in a tape. Each
class will have method such as read ( ) & show ( ). Write a program that models this class
hierarchy & processes objects using reference to base class only.

6. Assume that a Bank maintains two kinds of accounts for its customers, one called savings
account and the other current account. The savings account provides compound interest and
withdrawal facilities. The current account provides no interest. Current account holders
should maintain balance and if the balance falls below this level, a service charge is imposed.
o Create a class Account that stores customers name, account number and type of the
account. From this derive the classes CurAccount and SavAccount to make them
more specific to their requirements.
o Include the necessary methods in order to achieve the following tasks:
Assign initial values
Accept deposit from a customer and update the balance
Permit withdrawal and update the balance
Compute and deposit interest
Check for the minimum balance, impose penalty, if necessary, and update it.
Display the balance
o Write a program that creates an array of Bank Account and displays a menu that lets a
new account to be created, perform deposit and withdrawal transactions on the basis
of account number, display the balance of account holder for whom the account
number is provided.
